well Dr Gabel mate is a physician author
and Trauma expert he joins us from
Vancouver now we appreciate you being
with us here on Al jaaz put simply
what's your view on the killings of
thousands of Palestinian civilians
during this Israeli military
offensive it is a continuation of
something that began in
1947-48 when um the sinist movement
whatever its justification in terms of
redeeming Jewish trauma in Europe
realized that the only way they can
establish a Jewish state is by the
exposion and mass killing of
Palestinians and that's been going on
ever since and that's not historically
controversial this has been documented
by Israeli historians reported on by
Israeli journalists it's just a
continuation of what's been going on now
for close to 80 years and
uh you know there was the Hamas attack
of October the 7th but what Israel was
doing as long long ago stopped being a
response to that it's what it really is
is the continuation of the political
extinction of the Palestinian people
given what you say I mean how important
is it to understand the historical
context of the events we're seeing
today well without that context October
the 7th just looks like another
anti-semitic outrage and of course you
know I don't know any body who justifies
supports or thinks Fair the killing of
civilians or The Taking of syian
hostages and from the perspective of not
knowing the history it just looks like
another Pilgrim that used to happen to
Jews in Eastern Europe but if you
understand the
context it's a different story
altogether
because Israel has been conducting quite
apart from what happened in 4748 in 56
and in ' 67 since ' 67 it's been
conducting this rapacious
brutal murderous occupation of
Palestinian lands and the suppression of
Palestinian people and their continued
ethnic cleansing and from that point of
view however unjustifiable maybe some of
the actions that occurred on October the
7th may seem and and are it's no longer
a question of anti-Semitism it's a
question of a people
desperate somehow resist an
occupation and uh Janine that you
mentioned on new reports well I've been
there those people have every right to
resist by arm force a brutal occupation
every people have the right to resist
that and as long as we only talk about
Israel's right to defend itself we're
not asking what about the right of the
Palestinian people to defend themselves
so again we don't have to justify we
with any particular action but we
thought they still context it just seems
like um a country defending itself
against unjustifiable attack well the
tactics may have been unjustifiable but
the resistance is not as you say you
yourself have visited the occupied
Palestinian territories uh what was your
impression of what you saw and how did
that affect
you well I've been there three times the
first time doing the first in probably
around 198 n or so I would think I'm not
sure exactly the year and I mentioned in
other interviews I just cried for two
weeks at what I saw because the
Palestinian narrative is simply not
presented in the west and we're seeing
it simply to the eyes
of this is they're terrorists and they
want to kill the Jews and they want to
destroy Israel and what I saw was a
people in deep suffering and deep
oppression human beings just want to
live live like human beings last time I
was there there was a year and a half
ago I was working with Palestinian women
who' been tortured in Israeli jails and
as somebody said to me there we don't
have postraumatic stress disorder here
because the trauma is never posted so
this is a people living under constant
trauma and when there is an a an
explosion of Palestinian
rage La day was in October the 7th then
the world notices and is horrified at
some of the things that happened
but again that explosion was almost
inevitable if not justifiable it was
certainly inevitable given what those
people have suffered including of course
the people in Gaza where in
2025 an international study from that
the most traumatized children in the
world were actually living in Gaza this
is
[Music]
2005 given what you say what message
would you give to the Israeli government
right
now you give messages to people who are
capable of listening that Israeli
government is determined to dominate all
of Palestine the could Charter includes
the denial of the rights of anybody but
Jews to have a
state west of the Jordan
River so why would I say anything to
them there's nothing to say to them I'm
saying to the world world stop these
lunatics before they destroy even more
human lives and ultimately themselves
but to the Israel government I have
nothing to
say to the Israeli people I would say
wake up be aware of what's Happening a
few miles away from your homes you don't
know what goes on in your name you don't
know what is being done in the name of
the Jewish people you don't know the
history and the ongoing suffering and
the misery of the pales Ian people to
the Israeli
government I have nothing to say to
them talking about history you yourself
have suffered in the past tell us about
that and how you feel that relates to
others right
now how does my own experience related
to this is that what you're asking
indeed well look
um I mean my people
I don't have to tell you underwent the
most horrific event in human history
which was the Nazi Genocide and I say
it's the most horrific because it was
the delivered planned and mechanical
scientifically organized destruction or
attempted destruction of a whole
people and I nearly fell victim to that
as an infant I lived under Nazi
occupation for a year as an infant uh my
father was in force labor my
grandparents died in MZ and the question
is what lesson shall we derive from that
experience one lesson to derive is the
zist lesson which is that Jews have to
be strong and ruthless and um beat down
everybody else before they beat us down
that's one potential lesson you can
derive we can see where that has led us
to the Mass Massacre of Palestinian
children the other lesson you can derive
from that same experience is let's not
treat each other like nonhuman beings
let's look at everyone like fellow human
beings have the same rights same desires
same aspirations as we all do so never
again from that point of view is not a
tribal slogan but it's a slogan for
Universal understanding and truly if
most people actually understood the real
experience of the Palestinian people for
the last 80 to 100 years they'd have a
very different view of what's going on
right now and you don't have to be
anti-jewish in fact from my point of
view the most pro-jewish you can do
Jewish thing you can do is to stand up
against this occupation because
ultimately it's not good for anybody we
understand that you're very much
involved when it comes to uh children's
trauma describe how children suffer in
something like this not withstanding the
thousands that have already been killed
well uh children grow up with a fear
sense of fear in the world a sense of
lack of safety insecurity
anxiety children grow up with grief
children grow up with humiliation
because their parents can't protect them
and their parents are being
humiliated so they develop a sense of
themselves as as insufficient and and
all kinds of mental health conditions
the God and mental health system was
overwhelmed long before before this last
set of um violence and atrocity and so
that mental health conditions like
depression anxiety psychosis um these
all you know attention problems these
all increase as a result of trauma and
that trauma is passed on from one
generation to the
next and what appeal briefly would you
give to what you would call
International Community who are watching
what's going on right
now what would I say to the
International Community is that what
you're asking
indeed I'd
say first of all do the research don't
just accept what the mainstream Media or
because the mainstream media generally
is lined up with American foreign policy
this is true at the time of the Iraq War
the mainstream media yammered on about
weapons of mass destruction we knew
there weren't any nobody found any but
that's what the mainstream media
trumpeted at the time of the Vietnam War
the um mainstream media pared the line
of the state department in the Pentagon
and that's what the mainstream media is
doing now and people that wanted to find
out what was really going on in in Iraq
or or in Vietnam or East Tour or
anywhere else they had to do their own
research so first of all don't just get
your information from the mainstream
media look around and find those
sources both Jewish and non-jewish both
Israeli and non-israeli who question the
mainstream M merited that's the first
thing I would say is just get the
information number one number two listen
to your heart what do you feel like
whatever your political opinions are
what do you feel when you see these
children's bodies being dug out of the
rubble okay forgive me Dr gab mate we
have to stop there we've run out of time
but thank you very much indeed for
joining us